Welcome to this week's Cran seminar. Our first speaker today is Roberto Molinaro.
He's studying, he's currently a PhD student with Professor Siddharth Mishra and he has
completed his master's degree at ETA at Zurich in the Department of Mechanical Engineering. His
research focuses on scientific machine learning, specifically on applying physics-informed neural
networks for forward and inverse problems. In particular, he's interested in high-dimensional
PDEs and exploring how PINs can improve the resolution of such equations. Recently, he has
also ventured into the field of operator learning and its potential applications for
learning operators for the underlying PDEs. With that, please join me in welcoming him
for today's presentation. You may want to take it away. Thanks a lot for your kind introduction
and also thank you very much for inviting me. It's a really pleasure and so what I'm going
to talk about today is neural inverse operators for solving PDE inverse problems, but before
delving into it, I would like to acknowledge the people I work with, particularly Yunan Bjorn
and my supervisor Sidd, that probably many of you know, and I would like to spend
a couple of minutes talking about inverse problems and what means solving inverse problems.
So let's consider a generic forward operator, F, which can be linear or nonlinear,
between two different normal spaces. And now solving an inverse problem
consists in finding if exists a state A such that F of A is equal to U, where U is the observable,
so what we actually measure. And given the measurements of U, we would like to infer
the underlying state A. And for instance, in the context of partial differential equation,
the forward operator might be the operator which takes as input the coefficient of the
coefficient in the partial differential equation and returns the solution of the PDE. For instance,
in the case of the ETH equation, the forward operator can be the operator which takes as input
the diffusivity A and returns the solution U which corresponds to the temperature of the
medium. And then the inverse problem might be, for instance, given measurements of the
temperature U, infer the underlying conductivity of the medium. And the main question that
naturalizes when solving inverse problem is can we actually reconstruct in a stable way
the underlying coefficient A? Or in other words, if we are given two observables
which are very close to each other, let's say U and U prime, this is also true that the
corresponding states A and A prime are also close to each other. And this is known as stability
of the inverse problem. And unfortunately, the bad news is that most inverse problems are
ill-posed. So this means that even though two observables are very close to each other,
the corresponding states can be very, very different. And this is what makes inverse
problems ill-posed. And now I would like to give you some examples of inverse problems.
The first one is electrical impedance homography. This is widely used in the medical field.
And what is done is to apply a voltage at a given point on the boundary of the object.
This voltage triggers a current inside the body. And then the corresponding
intensity of the current is measured at the boundary of the object. And now given the
measurements of the intensity of the current at the boundary of the object,
one wants to infer the internal structure of the object.
And in mathematical terms, this problem is modelled through the Poisson equation,
where the interior structure of the object is described through the conductivity of the medium.
And then the inverse problem consists in finding the conductivity A, given measurements of the
intensity of the current at the boundary, where the intensity of the current is nothing but
the normal trace of the solution at the boundary. A similar example is optical imaging.
And the difference with respect to, compared to the electrical impedance homography,
is that in this case, the scan is done through light. And despite the similarity,
the mathematical model describing this phenomenon is completely different,
because here we have the radiative transport equation. And the inverse problem consists in
finding the so-called scattering coefficient, given the measurements of the intensity of the radiation,
which leaves the domain. But the main goal is the same. Given measurements of the solution
or measurements of the observable at the boundary, infer the internal structure of the
object, which can be modelled through the conductivity of the medium, if we are talking
about electrical impedance homography, or the scattering coefficient, if we are talking about
optical imaging. But the idea is the same. And one similar example is also seismic imaging.
And what is done is to send some waves in the ground from a source, which is located at the
top surface of the ground. These waves are reflected through different layers of the soil.
And the corresponding pressure variation due to these reflected waves is measured at some
receivers, which are again located at the top surface of the domain. And the inverse problem is
to infer the velocity of the wave, which is a direct measure of the internal property of the
object, given the measurements of the pressure variation at these receivers. So all these
problems share a similar structure. For all these problems, we aim at reconstructing the
interior properties of the object, given measurements which are taken only at the boundary.
And the main issue of solving this problem is that measurements of the observable,
which arise for a single instance of the boundary data, do not suffice to infer the underlying
coefficient that we are looking for. So to make it more clear, if we go back to the example
of the electrical impedance homography, if we set the voltage potential at this point,
we measure the corresponding intensity of the current. And then given these measurements,
which are realized for one single realization of the voltage, and we try to infer the conductivity
even given these single measurements, then there is no hope to stably reconstruct the
underlying coefficient. And actually what is done for when solving these type of problems
is to first apply a voltage potential at this point on the boundary of the domain
and measure the corresponding intensity of the current, let's say psi one.
Then move the source on another point of the boundary of the domain and obtain the corresponding
intensity of the current and keep doing these several times until we cover the entire
boundary of the object through these sources here. And now, given the collections of the
measurements psi one, psi two, psi three, psi four, and so on, each of them obtained by different
realizations of the boundary data G1, G2, G3, we try to reconstruct the coefficient. And now
in this case, we can reconstruct the coefficient in a stable way. In more rigorous terms, for all these
problems, the observable is actually an operator, in particular a boundary operator, namely an
operator which takes as input a function which is defined on the boundary of the domain
and returns a function which is still defined on the boundary of the domain. And now if we consider
the map, which takes as input this operator and returns the underlying coefficient that we are
interested in, then this map is unique and weakly stable. So
now this boundary operator lambda a is different for any of these problems and it depends on the
structure of the partial differential equation. But the idea is exactly the same. For all these
problems, we can construct this map which takes as input this operator and returns the
underlying coefficient. For instance, in the case of the EIT, the boundary operator is the Dirichlet
to Noman map. For the optical imaging is the so-called Albedo operator, the operator which
takes as input the radiation which enters the domain and returns the radiation which leaves
the domain. And for the seismic imaging, we have the source to receiver map. So again, for all
these problems, share a similar structure. And for all these problems, the map which takes as
input a boundary operator, which can be different based on the nature of the PDE and returns the
coefficient of interest, this map is well posed, is at least unique and stable.
And the main issue of solving these inverse problems is that they are
very computationally expensive. And therefore, what we aim to do is to replace these
inverse maps with a surrogate deep learning data-driven model. But in order to construct
this data-driven model, we need two main building pieces, namely a data and a model.
So before going on, is there any question at this point? So we are addressing a class of
inverse problems where the map from operator to functions, in particular a boundary operator to
function is well posed. And now what we are trying to do is to approximate these inverse map
through data-driven model. What we are going to do now is to specify how the data and the model
should look like or might look like for this type of supervised learning model task.
Roberto, this is Sukou from Davis. I had just had a question on the previous slide
when you when you impose essential boundary conditions at two points.
You mean here? Yeah, exactly. So what were the boundary conditions for the remaining part
of the boundary? Is it zero flux or something? You can imagine a point source boundary conditions.
Actually, when we run the experiments, for instance, we use some kind of
wave type boundary conditions which are defined on the entire boundary of the domain. And these
are usually Dirichlet boundary conditions, at least the electrical impedance tomography.
Yeah, exactly. Yes. So you can imagine that it's, they say one at this point and zero
everywhere else. So just a function. Like a hat function, like a hat function, right?
Yes, for instance, but this can be kind of arbitrary. And maybe it's going to get clear
also once I talk about the data structure. Yeah, okay, thanks. Yeah, sure. You're welcome.
Feel free to interrupt me at any point if you have any question. Okay.
Claudia, I can ask one more question quickly. Can you can you impose
flux, like zero flux boundary conditions and knock off the constant, which is the null space
by the average, because the average is going to be some number, right? So is it possible to do that?
Actually, also for this problem, also the Neumann to Dirichlet map, if you consider the operator
which takes as input the Neumann data and returns the Dirichlet data, and the inverse map which
takes this operator as input and returns the coefficient, this is also well posed. So you
can also impose the as you can also impose a flux function. Absolutely, yes.
I was thinking about the DTN map, basically. That's why. Yes, absolutely. You can consider
either the DTN map or the NTD map. Actually, NTD is even better because it's more stable than the DTN.
Okay, so data. First, the essential first, the first point is how to discretize this
input operator, because now again, we are trying to solve the supervised learning task where the
input to the map to the map is an operator. And actually, from what I told before,
this should be already kind of clear. So one way of discretizing this operator is to consider the
tuple of input and output functions, g1, psi1, g2, psi2, g3, psi3, and so on. And those are nothing
but realizations or samples from the underlying operator. So you apply a given boundary data g1,
you can obtain the corresponding observable psi1, which is nothing but the action
of the underlying operator on the corresponding boundary data. And then you repeat this process
at times. And now our discretized version of our input operator is this
collection of input and output functions, where again, the output functions are nothing but the
actions of the operator on the input functions. And now if we assume that the operator is
injective, we can kind of forget about the inputs. And we can only consider as a potential
representation of the discrete operator, just the collections of these output measurements, psi1,
l. So we have l, which is actually also pretty consistent with what is done in practice. Because
again, in practice, what you do is just to measure the observable and then given the
measurements of the observable inferred the underlying coefficient. But now,
instead of having one measurements of the observable, we have l different measurements
of the observable, each realized by different, for instance, locations of the boundary data.
And now we move to the actual generation of the training data. So what we do,
because of course, the training of the model is done through synthetic data. So we generate
ourselves the data in order to learn the underlying map. And what we do is to fix a given distribution
over or probability distribution over the input functions g. And we use the same,
and we draw from this distribution l different functions gl. And we fix them. So now we consider
an additional distribution nu a on the coefficients. And we draw a random coefficient
from this distribution. And now for each of these realizations of the Dirichlet data,
we solve the underlying partial differential equation, which is in this case is the Darcy
equation with the coefficient a and with boundary conditions g1, g2, g3, and so on.
And then we compute the corresponding observables. In this case, the Neumann trace of the solution.
And again, this operator simply arises from the nature of the partial differential equation.
So we don't know exactly how to compute this, but this again comes from solving the PDE.
And now the tuple of l input, l measurements psi l and coefficient a define one single
data sample. And of course, now we can repeat this process with the same realizations of
boundary data gel for n different realizations of the coefficients a. And then we put them
together in order to construct the training data. So this is how the training data looks
like. We have n samples defined by input obtained as a collection of l functions and output,
which is a single function, the coefficient of interest. Okay, so is this clear? Because now
we are going to move to the model part based on this construction of the data.
Yeah. So one quick question. This is Dar from Brown. How are you solving the forward part,
like you're using some runicuta? No, because this is a time independent problem. So we just
use a linear solver. Oh, you solve directly? Yeah, we solve it directly in order to generate
these training data. So these data are synthetically generated. So again, we consider
differentizations of the boundary data. We draw a random different coefficients.
For each of them, we solve the problems. And then we assemble these data. But the PDE is
solved numerically by finite differences, finite elements, standard numerical methods.
Oh, I was asking, because the follow up question would be, what's the order of that
question? Because you have a lot of surface waves and a lot of phenomenons
that you will get only if you solve it high order. And then your
finite differences of finite elements have to be high order.
No, actually, we use a second order finite differences to solve these problems.
We don't have extremely high frequencies for the boundary data.
Okay. Cool. Thank you. You're welcome. Can I ask you a question also? This is
from Sandhya National Labs. Can you comment on whether you imagine in the future that you would
want to generalize to different geometries? So right here, you're working with the
coefficients. But are you envisioning that as an extension in the future?
Yes. I mean, of course, it can be extended. Because after all, so for the time being,
okay, so this is still the, let's say, the continuous version of the problem,
at least in terms of functions. Because now we have discretized the input operator,
but still these psi L and these A are functions. And this can be defined on any arbitrary domain.
The main issue is then on a discrete level, how to represent these functions.
And so far, we have considered only the case of Cartesian grid points or
let's say points on a circular domain. But also in that case, you can kind of
simplify to Cartesian set of points in polar coordinates. But of course, then you can apply
any type of data transformation prior. You can kind of discretize these functions
on a set of points that you wish. Then the only thing that matters is how you build the
underlying model. Because each model can deal with different data structures in terms of where you
discretize the functions. So in principle, you can discretize it everywhere. And it doesn't
matter if it's a square, a circular domain, complex domain. But then of course, you have to adopt the
architecture in order to deal with this type of data. But yeah, I mean, there is a potential
application to also other different domains. Understood. Thanks. You're welcome. Okay.
So actually, also according to what I was saying before now, when it comes to the construction
of the model, the learning model has to be consistent or has to respect the inherent
properties of the problem or the task at hand. And in particular, what are the main properties
that we would like the approximate model to satisfy? So first of all, the model that we
are trying to approximate or to construct is a model which takes functions which are defined
on the input and returns functions which are defined on the boundary and returns
functions which are defined in the interior domain. So boundary to interior. And now
second and more important point, this inverse map is a map from operators to functions. And so
what does it mean? I mean, what does it imply? First of all, we would like that at testing time,
the model should be able to handle any arbitrary number of functions L tilde,
discretizing the input operator. No matter if we have L functions, 2L functions,
M functions, we would like the model to be able to handle without retraining any arbitrary number
of functions. And we'd like the model performance also to be independent of how many functions we
chose to discretize our input operator. Or in other words, we would like the model to be
independent of how we discretized input operator. And that's because of course,
if we imagine to deploy this model for
usage later on, then we might have given inputs, let's say measurements of the given observables,
which are taken not in the exact same way we generate is the training data. Maybe we generated
the training data by using 10 functions. And then we receive, we are asked to compute
the underlying coefficient at inference for maybe 10 measurements because the prediction has taken
10 measurements. And we would like the model to be independent of how many functions, how many
measurements are taken. And so before delving into the specific architecture,
a little overview about the so-called operator learning framework that probably many of you
are already familiar with. So operator learning consists in functions to function map
approximation. And here we are doing some things that are different because now we are trying
to approximate operators to functions map. And there are many wide-use architectures.
One very common architecture is DIPONET. So DIPONET belongs to the class of operator networks
and it approximates the output function as a linear combination of some basis functions
tau with the given coefficients beta, where the basis functions tau depend only on the set
of points where we would like to evaluate our output function, whereas the coefficients depend
only on the input function f. And it's standard practice to approximate both the branch
and the trunk, sorry, the coefficients of this function and the basis of these functions
with neural networks. And we call the branch net, the network approximating the coefficient
and trunk net, the network approximating the basis. And a nice property of DIPONET is that
it can approximate functions, input and output function, let's say operators between functions
which are defined on any arbitrary domain. So the domain definition of the input function f
and the output function h can be completely different. And this is actually a very
useful property for our purpose. However DIPONET, as I mentioned before,
it approximates operators, namely maps between functions and functions. So we need to modify
we need to modify a bit the architecture in order to be useful for our case.
One additional architecture which is very used nowadays is Fourier Neural Operator.
And this consists of the composition of different operators. First, the input function is lifted
to do to an i-dimensional space through a linear transformation R. And then the output of
this transformation is passed through a set of Fourier layers. And finally it's projected
back to the original space through the projection Q. Actually the details of the
architectures are not relevant for the purpose of this presentation. But the main take home messages
concerning FNO is that this architecture, differently from DIPONET, is based on a non-linear
reconstruction. And therefore it can be very expressive, in particular when it comes to
discontinuous functions. And for our purpose we might end up dealing with the discontinuous
functions. For instance, if you imagine again the composition of the soil or the ground,
this can be given by different layers which can be represented by discontinuous functions.
So we would like to have some expressive power when it comes to discontinuous functions.
However, FNO can only approximate operators between functions which are defined on the same
domain, at least the plain vanilla version of FNO. And also, like DIPONET, FNO approximates operator.
So again, it's not completely useful for our purpose. So the architecture that we propose
is called neural inverse operator. And now, based on the main properties that we would like the model
to show, I will build up on these points, different elements of the architecture.
So first of all, in order to address the first point, namely input and output which are
defined on different domains, while still keeping the expressive power of FNO,
we combine together DIPONET and FNO. So what you observe here, this one is the branch net of
DIPONET. And this is the trunk net of DIPONET. And then we have a set of three layers here.
So the branch net takes as input the collections of the L functions. So this is one single
data sample. And it constructs the coefficients of the linear expansion of DIPONET.
The trunk net takes as input the variable set, which corresponds to a discrete version of the
interior domain. So in this case, just Cartesian grid points discretizing the
interior domain. So again, these functions are defined on the boundary, whereas Z is a
discrete representation of the interior domain. And the trunk net returns the basis of this
expansion. And now these weights and basis are assembled together in order to construct these
L different functions, which are now defined in the interior domain. So DIPONET moved
the reconstruct from the boundary data some latent variable, which is defined in the
interior domain. And now these set of functions are passed through the linear transformation R,
which returns the variable, again, a second latent variable H,
which is then processed through a set of different Fourier layer. And now you can
see here how this function, this function, this operation looks like. This is simply a weighted
average of these functions f of L, each of its own weight, WL. And now what you can imagine
this architecture doing is first DIPONET tries to construct the solution of the partial
differential equation inside the domain, given the measurements taken at the boundary of the domain.
And then what the Fourier layers and, you know, like this part of the architecture does
is to perform the inversion, given the solution of the PDE in the domain, obtain the corresponding
underlying coefficient. And the main issue of the architecture as it is right now
is that this architecture, despite being able to approximate, despite being able to handle inputs
and outputs which are defined on different domains, still we have the problem that at testing time,
if we are given L plus one function, we wouldn't know what to do with the last functions. Maybe
we assign to the first L the parameters WL. And then what do we do with the last one?
We said maybe the parameters equal to zero is not clear and it's not
extremely rigorous. So what we did in order to make the architecture able to handle any
discretization of the input operator at testing time is to replace these
weighted average through a simple empirical expectation. So we assign basically the same
weight to all these functions F of L. And now at testing time, if we're given a different
number of functions L tilde discretizing the input operator, what we need to do at this point
is just to compute the empirical expectation of these functions F of L. So this solves the
second point to A. So now we are able to handle at testing time any arbitrary number of functions.
However, as this stands now, we have no guarantee that the architecture will perform
equally well when we consider different number of functions. And the main objection
that one can do is that now we're kind of losing information because we are replacing
a weighted average with a global average where we are assigning the same weight to every function.
So somehow we lose some information. And the way we solve this problem is through
a so-called randomized batch. So this is an algorithmic trick. And what we do, so
and it works in this way.
What we do, so this is how our training input looks like. We have again a collection of L
functions. In this case, we have nine functions. So what we do at every training iteration
is to draw at random an integer number between one and nine. And then we draw from this box of
functions, let's say L at functions where L at can be anything between one and nine.
And then we feed the model with these collection of functions. And now there is no problem
with feeding the model with this input because of how we built the architecture in the
previous step. And then we repeat this process at every training iteration. So not at every epoch,
but really at every time we call the model, we draw at random a different number of functions
from this box. And then we feed the model with this new number of functions. So iteration one,
we have five functions, iteration two, we have nine functions, iteration nine, we have two, and so on.
And now first we don't have any smiling face here because unfortunately we don't have guarantees
about the mathematical guarantees about this algorithm. So we can only test the
effectiveness of the model through numerical experiments. But the heuristic is that,
so if we consider this architecture, and if we imagine there exists a distribution over these
functions f of L, which are the functions which the PONAT reconstructs, what you observe with the
first architecture is always and only the empirical expectation of these functions.
Instead, when you construct these sub batches of the training inputs,
the model is able to explore the entire probability distribution because maybe at some point you get
two samples with two samples, you get a very bad estimate of the empirical expectation which
maybe is located at the very end tail of the distribution. And then by repeating this
process n times with n being very, very large, somehow the model observes the entire distribution
over these functions. And so this is how you recover the information that you lose by replacing
these weighted average with this global average. One additional way to perform this task,
maybe instead of providing as input to the Fourier layers only the empirical expectation,
you compute different statistics of this distribution. You take the mean, the standard
deviation, the minimum, the maximum and so on. And then you provide as input to these Fourier
layers all these statistics. This randomized batch is just a more efficient way of doing this
in order to explore this distribution. Excuse me, can I ask a question? I'm Kamal from Brown.
Is the same model the Fourier depunit? I put the paper inside. Is it the same model?
I'm aware of this. I think I'm aware of this paper. The initial architecture is the same.
Yes. What they do is to combine depunit and Fourier. I think figure three.
Yeah. I think this is this architecture here, but they came after this one.
Okay. So this came before the other one? Yeah. This one came in already January.
But the architecture is same. What they do is to construct, is to combine depunit and FNO.
I think they also use some U or net principle here at these Fourier layers.
But yeah. It looks like similar. So that's how I ask the question. Is it?
Yeah. It's totally legit. And yes, I mean the basic architecture is the same. Yeah.
Okay. Thank you. Oh, it's very similar. Yeah. Thank you. You're welcome.
And is there any question concerning the model? Okay. So then we can
look at some numerical experiments. So we consider different benchmarks for the
electrical impedance homography. We consider a set of data whose coefficients, which we are trying to
infer, look like this, like similar to trigonometric functions. We have different frequencies
up to seven, each with different amplitude and so on. And this is how the input operator looks
like or at least three discrete samples of this input operator. Second example we consider for the
EIT is one of ART and LANGSA. And the coefficients look like this. Actually, the dataset is obtained
by perturbing this reference configuration with adding some noise and then solving the underlying
problem again with finite elements. And this is a very simplified model even though it's widely used
of human body midsections. These ones are the LANGSA and this one is the heart of humans. And
this is how again the input looks like. Third example, detection of inclusions. We have
scutters from one to four which are spread in the domain. And these scutters are all the same shape.
And what we try to reconstruct is where these scutters are located and how they look like.
For the optical imaging, we consider a similar example to the one before, but in 1D. And now
we consider different coefficients by varying the height of these scutters, the width, the location,
and so on. But as for seismic imaging, we consider the problem of the family of
coefficients belonging to the Kurbel family, just some Kurbel linear layer. That's what
I meant by discontinuous functions. You can see some discontinuities between different layers
and the Stylwell family coefficient. So the first experiment that we, the first test that we run
is to compute the performance on a testing set whose input are discretized in exactly the
same way as the training. Can I roll back? I just want to understand what do you mean by
family of coefficients, like the Stylwell Kurbel? What are those? Just like you change?
Yeah, so this is one sample from this family. And then you can have, maybe I have here one
additional sample. You see, this is a second example for a second sample. So you can have
the samples belonging to the family all share a similar property, which is these Kurbel linear
layers corresponding to different layers of the ground. But it's just like a family of
coefficients which belong, it has been developed by Los Alamos National Lab. It's called Open FYI
and it contains a huge set of data for seismic imaging, including Stylwell and Kurbel.
Got it. Okay, so you have it. So you're not actually using different family of functions to
create data, but you already have those input functions. You just plug them in.
And actually, for all the previous examples, we had in-house codes for solving the problem.
So to create, for example, this Kurbel, you're playing with the,
like you have some sort of linear combination of signs or something like that?
I mean, these data sets are already available on the website of the people who created the
data set. So we just took the data from them. Yeah, that's what I'm saying. You take the inputs,
then you run them through a solver. No, no, no. Also, the outputs are already developed by them.
Oh, wow, okay. Yeah, yeah, no, it's huge. Like they have a huge set of data for seismic imaging.
Five times, yeah. Yeah, including input and output. So these ones are given by these
samples of this data set. Same, this one. They have a so-called flat well,
instead of having curvilinear layers, they have linear layers, like flat layers,
even some inclusions in the soil. Like you have some objects and you want to detect this object.
There are many data sets for the seismic imaging, not for the others. For others,
we generate the data. All right, thank you. You're welcome. Okay, so
again, the first numerical experiment consists in testing the architecture on a set of
testing data which are unseen and which share the same discretization for the inputs as the
training. So the training is discretized with L functions and also the testing
inputs are discretized through this exact same number of functions, L.
And here, I mean, we compare the architecture with some other baseline,
including deeponet and fully convolutional neural network.
Neural inverse operator performs slightly better, but for instance, in the trigonometric functions,
visually, there is no much difference between NIO and fully convolutional network.
Similar results also for the Erton-Lang's quantum. NIO performs better, but visually,
also the other architecture performs pretty well. Here, we see some difference and it's where
probably we also get this advantage compared to fully convolutional network. Because in this
case, this is the actual coefficient. This is the coefficient predicted by neural inverse
operator and this is the one predicted by fully convolutional network. And you see that
these architecture completely miss these internal, these inner scatters. And probably that's
what brings the error a bit up higher compared to neural inverse operator.
For optical imaging, again, this is one test sample. This is a second test sample.
We see for this one, visually, similar performance among the models. For this one,
instead, fully convolutional networks a bit underestimate these
height of the scatters. And similarly for Curvell, actually, in this case, fully convolutional
network, which is what this one is actually a pretty powerful architecture used for
seismic imaging, which is called inversion net. And this belongs still, and it's also mentioned in the
paper from OpenFYI, where they have these set of data. They use these inversion net as a model.
And in this case, the performance is comparable for the Curvell family, a bit lower for
fully convolutional network. For Stilvell, again, we observe a slightly better performance of
neural inverse operator. But so the main, the second test that we run is was to test the
performance of the architecture on a set of testing data, which have a different
discretization compared to the training data. So now the training data, again,
consists, the training inputs consist of an operator which is discretized through L
functions. Whereas at testing time, we test through an input with a set of test samples,
so which are still unseen. And also the input operator is discretized through L
till the functions with L till the smaller than L. And now here we plot the median test error versus
the number of functions L till them discretizing the input operator. And you observe that the
blue line is a neural inverse operator, whereas the orange and the red ones are
deponent and fully convolutional network. And we observe that when we test on a
a set or on testing samples, which with the most inputs are discretized in the same way as the
training, then all the model performs fairly well. However, when we move even slightly,
when we consider even a slightly different number of functions discretizing the input
operator, now we observe that the neural inverse operator is pretty stable. It performs
equally well for any type of discretization. Whereas the other two architect, the performance
of the other two architectures deteriorate immediately when we consider a different
number of functions. And the results become even 10 times worse. And we have seen a similar pattern
for the Arthell-Lang's problem for inclusions of the detections. And this proves at least
experimentally, again, we don't have rigorous guarantee. It proves at least experimentally
that the architecture is independent of how many functions we choose to discretize our input
operator. And we observe similar results also for optical imaging, seismic imaging, and so on.
Now one additional experiment is very similar to before. Instead of testing the architecture
on a set of input data defined by L tilde functions with L tilde smaller than L, which was
the training one. Now we test the architecture with a set of test data whose input are discretized by
using L tilde functions between 10 and 100. So less and also more functions compared to what we use
for discretizing the input operator during the training. And you observe very similar behavior.
So this is the typical V-shape pattern that we see when we have this type of non-invariant
discretization of the model. And now what we consider next is the so-called
out-of-sample distribution. Because so far we've always considered a set of testing data
which are unseen during the training, but still belongs to the same distribution of the training
data, which is common practice in machine learning. So if you consider core volume or like
the inclusions of the detections, during the training data we add one to four
scatterers. During the testing inference we also consider a set of testing samples,
including from one to four scatterers. And now what we want to do is to check how the model
performs when you change the underlying distribution of the testing data. So instead
of considering, for instance, scatterers which are squared, we consider scatterers which are
circle and see how the model performs when you change this distribution, when you slightly
perturb or change this distribution. For instance, we consider in the case of the inclusion
detections instead of one to four scatterers, five scatterers, and then the model has never
seen five scatterers. And the performance is still pretty good. And similarly, instead of
considering one to four scatterers with the same shape, we consider one to four scatterers with
different shapes. And also in this case, the performance remains pretty good. Of course the
deteriorates because those are completely unseen out of distribution samples, but still the model
performs very well. And also for the art and lungs, instead of defining the training, the
testing data by perturbing a reference solution by 8 percent noise, we perturbed by 12 percent
noise. And in this case, the performance is exactly the same. And this is actually
quite surprising because, as I mentioned initially, the inverse map is stable, but still is weakly
stable. And actually people in the field of inverse problems almost consider
this type of weak logarithmic stability almost equivalent to no stability at all. So it was
quite surprising to see that despite the nature of the map, also by changing the underlying
distribution, the model was performing fairly well without providing completely random prediction.
And again, we don't have a reason why this happens, but the heuristic is that
by training the model, you kind of enforce some stronger form of stability
of the architecture itself because you kind of restrict the functions that the model can
return to a specific class of functions. You will not get, by training the model on scatterers,
something which looks like the art and line spontane, because of course the model has been
trained on the specific task. And one additional example was ablation study. We wanted to see how
additional free layers and randomized patch impacts on the performance of the model because
after all, it might have also not brought to any improvement. And what we observe here is
the blue line is neural inverse operator with the Fourier layers and the randomized patch
algorithm. The purple one is a neural inverse operator without the randomized patch.
And the light blue is a neural inverse operator without the Fourier layers.
And you observe that for all the experiments, if we include both the Fourier layers
and the randomized patch, the model performs way better compared to not having either one
or the other. And this is for different discretization of the input testing operator.
So to conclude, because my initial claim was, okay, we tried to approximate the underlying map
because the actual inverse problem, solving the actual inverse problem with traditional
numerical methods is very expensive. Is this actually true? So what we did was to compare
the performance of the model with the performance achieved with the traditional
numerical methods. And you can see this one is the Arten Lang coefficient reconstructed through
a traditional scheme is way more blurred compared to what the model reconstructs. And also
the computational time for obtaining these is around two hours. Whereas the inference time,
only the inference time for a neural inverse operator is 0.1 second. And this is actually not
a property only of NIO, but all machine learning models perform equally well in terms of computational
time as the as neural inverse operator. So it's more like, if we can use machine learning
to actually solve this inverse problem in lower computational time. We did the same also for
the inclusions of the detections. And I would like to highlight that this sample is an out-of-distribution
sample because remember the training data we trained the model with was defined by
a sculptors of all the same shape. Instead here we consider a set of sculptors with different shape.
And you can observe that NIO, even on these samples, which is smaller and never seen,
it kind of sees that there is something going on and it provides some more blurred around the
object. Whereas it captures very well the edges of these two because these are
similar size of the one that the model has seen. And again, this one, two percent error in 0.5 second,
whereas with PD constraint optimization took 30 minutes for with a 10 percent error. Similar results
also for seismic imaging. So where do we stand and actually where we would like to go? So
as you have probably noticed, we don't have at the moment any mathematical guarantee.
And what we would be nice is to construct an upper bound on the error of a neural inverse operator
and to see how the discretization of the input operator impacts on the performance, how other
features impact, for instance, on the error. And also, one additional thing that we would like to
work on is to improve the generalization performance of the model on these out-of-sample
distribution. And so I think I would like now to stop and thank you very much for your attention.
Thank you, Roberto. And if you have any questions, I would be happy to answer.
Okay, so that's sweet. Do we have questions for Roberto?
I feel like I've asked a lot, but I do.
So I was wondering, can you go back a couple of flights to the images you showed of the
different shapes of these one? Yes, exactly. So I'm looking at this and I'm thinking,
so your scatterers are like blobs with one like high intensity point in the middle, right?
Yes. So in terms of application of this study, do you really need this whole,
like to reconstruct the whole image? The prediction should be a reconstruction of the whole thing?
Or would, for example, just trying to figure out the location of the three scatterers,
like X, Y coordinates? It depends on the application and also, I mean...
Yeah, that's what I'm interested in, like in terms of application.
I think in medical imaging, you would like to reconstruct the entire image.
And also because if you, so let's say, one way is also, as you mentioned,
is to predict where they are located. However, in this case, you are assuming that you know
how the coefficients look like. So when it comes to then coefficients where might have different
form from what you guessed, then you would have no idea how to actually reconstruct the
coefficient. You see what I mean? Instead, in this case, it's completely unparametric,
because it just reconstruct the image without any type of assumption on how the image
should look like, any parameterization. You are not predicting the size of the scatterers
and the location of the scatterers. So if you're given a different task, maybe you have
I don't know, you want to predict also the shape, then you wouldn't be able to do it if you
constrain yourself to a given parameterization of the state that you are looking for.
I agree. That leads me to the next question, which is how robust it is to the geometries.
How good, if you have a non-convex geometry or some crazy star-shaped geometry,
will you be able to pick up those? We don't know yet, but that's what we are
working on at the moment. Actually, yes. Thank you. You're welcome.
I think Professor Erhard has some questions until you. Yeah, we can hear you now.
Okay. Yeah, thanks for this very nice talk. I have maybe a more fundamental question.
I was wondering if your approach is somehow independent of the type of PDE.
You have three different types of PDEs, but somehow you didn't dive into the details.
I mean, if you think about stability estimates, then the stability estimates are very different
for each type of PDE. Is a method really independent of the type?
No, no, no. We train each model for each benchmark and for each PDE. The models are
agnostic with respect to the physics. If your underlying problem is governed by
radiative equation and then you apply a model which has been trained, let's say, on data generated
by solving Poisson equation, there is no hope that the model is going to provide you reasonable
inaccurate reconstruction unless you incorporate in the model itself, either with the
architecture or the loss, some information about the PDE itself. But this is a completely data-driven
model. So the model sees at the moment completely agnostic of the physics, and it sees an input
and returns an output, no matter what is the PDE, the underlying PDE. Of course, if the
underlying PDE is different compared to what you are trained on, then the model performance
are going to be terrible. Yeah, and maybe one small extra question. Maybe I missed it.
Do you need the knowledge of the fundamental solution of the PDEs, or are you computing the
fundamental solutions? No, no, no. We are not computing fundamental solutions. We are not
computing green functions. We simply have a code which solves the underlying PDE. What we
do is to assign the boundary data, solve the underlying PDE, and obtain the corresponding
observable, given the problem at hand. So again, for the Poisson equation, we assign the voltage,
we compute current, but we don't assume anything about green functions, fundamental solutions,
or anything. Okay, thanks a lot. I've got a question. I'm Sukho again from Davis.
So you mentioned about the problem being ill posed. So from the boundary data, you can get
different realizations of A of x, y, right? So is it possible that for a given solution,
you can construct actually two functions A of x, y, which give the same solution, boundary data?
I see what, okay, so I should have been probably more clear. The problem is ill posed when you
consider a single set of measurements. So again, if you, or very few measurements, if we go back
here. So if you, if you consider the EIT, you compute the intensity of the current for one
single realization of the boundary condition, and then given these single measurements,
you try to infer the coefficient, then the problem is ill posed. But when you set it
in the framework of operators to function, or namely, if you collect many different
realizations of the intensity of the current, each obtained by different realization of these
voltage, then the problem is stable, even though it's a weakly stable.
Yeah, that's right, because you were showing many exact coefficients, then comparing to what
you obtained, right? So then that's what was not clear. Okay, also the second question is
many other questions that people are asking. So if you just have a triangular domain instead of,
say, a square or a circle, can you still do what you're doing by just mapping the
triangle to a square and proceeding or? Okay, so the main reason why we used
why we used Cartesian and square domains is that we used these Fourier layers.
And in Fourier layers, what it is done is to compute the Fourier transform of the input,
then to multiply by some learnable parameters and then compute the inverse Fourier transform.
And these Fourier transforms is computed with the FFT algorithm. And to use FFT, you need to
have Cartesian domains. So the way you can, so one way to do it, if you have like triangular
domain, so what you can do is you consider, and that can be everything, that can be a
discrete version of the triangular domain, some just sample, pick that random, then you do everything
exactly, you do the same with that we did before up to this point here. And now,
what one can do in order to still be able to use FNO or like these Fourier layers is to
include an additional transformation which maps this triangular domain into a square domain,
do all the reconstruction and then map back to the triangular domain to obtain the coefficient
on triangular domain or replace directly these Fourier layers. Yeah, I was asking because, you know,
whenever you construct a map from a triangle to a square, of course, the Jacobin will vanish
at one point, right? So that does cause an issue because if you can do that, then
in potentially I think you could even do unstructured, you know, domains, right?
I mean, the authors of the paper of FNO also proposed these geo FNO, which does exactly this.
And they even mapped airfoil domain to Cartesian domain, which are not topologically
the same equivalent. And they got some reasonable results. I don't know mathematically if, I mean,
in practice, it should be doable. I don't know if it makes completely sense from a rigorous
mathematical perspective. That's, that's, I don't know. Because I don't know what will happen
to the Fourier coefficients when you have, you know, when the Jacobin is not, you know,
I mean, because I wouldn't know. I wouldn't know. Actually, I'm not able to answer on top of my
ad like this question. I had no idea. Also, because in the end, like the parameters, I mean,
you still compute these coefficients, but then you multiply them by these learnable
parameters that you learn during training. So it's very difficult to say what's going to
happen. Because when, you know, when it comes to training and machine learning, everything is
very sure. So thanks.
Some data. Who proposed GFNO?
No, we proposed it in the deep one. Exactly. It's in our paper. We proposed it before the
GFNO is in the paper, fair comparison of 16 different benchmarks. So we could do it with
both the DFNO for dimension consistency and also the geometry. We try to help them.
Okay. All right. That came before I see it. I was wondering if Umair,
are you in the audience? Umair may have a question, but okay, no.
Good discussions from that. Maybe we can go to the next one. Very, very good discussion.
Robert, thank you for the nice talk. Thank you. It was very a great pleasure.
You can speak up for our second talk, actually, Alberto. Okay. Thank you. Maybe
you can stop sharing, maybe? Yes. It's all European today.
It's nice. It's nice. I like it. Thanks again.
So we've moved to our second speaker, a second presentation. It's a joint presentation by
Professor Jose Antonio Font and his student, Antonio Ferrer-Shanzitz.
So you may want to share the screen when I introduce you to the audience.
Sure. So Professor Font is a full professor of astronomy and astrophysics in the University
of Valencia in Spain. He has many years of experience in large-scale supercomputing
application in relativistic astrophysics, in particular in the fields of
numerical relativity and relativistic hydrodynamics. Having co-authored over
250 articles in peer-reviewed journals, he is a member of the Spanish Royal
Physical Society and the Spanish Astronomical Society. His student, Antonio, is a
second-year PhD student in the same university. His primary research area is mainly focused on
the development of deep learning applications applied to physics. His ongoing thesis focuses
on the utilization of pins to address challenges to explore the boundaries of fundamental physics,
in particular with the domains of astrophysics and astronomy. With that, please join me in
welcoming both of them for today's presentation. So thank you very much Sundata.
Thank you very much. So as you were saying, this will be a joint presentation. I will start
presenting the actual problem that we want to solve with pins, which are relativistic
hydrodynamics, room problems, and relativistic hydrodynamics. And then later on, Tony Ferrer
will talk about the actual method, the gradient-annihilated physics-informed neural
network method that he has developed. So this is, first of all, we would like to thank you
for the invitation and for your interest in this work. So I hope you like our presentation.
So this is a paper we have recently submitted, which is done by these five people here and
have listed in the title. All of us belong to the University of Palencia in Spain.
Okay, so let me see. It seems like I cannot... Okay, there we go. Can you see my screen well?
Can you hear me well as well? Yes. Okay, so this is the outline of the presentation. So
basically I will give a brief introduction and motivation to the physical problem we want to
solve, which is relativistic hydrodynamics with physics-informed neural networks. That would
be my part. And then Tony's part would be the second part for the actual method, as I
was saying, and the application to see how these pins actually perform to solve room
of problems in relativistic hydrodynamics. So these are some of the keywords of the presentation.
So the first keyword is room and problem. What is a room and problem is basically an
initial value problem with these continuous conditions. Then neural networks, for our choice,
would be a physics-informed neural network. And then the physical application would be
the earlier equations, but in the relativistic case, not the classical equations of Newtonian
hydrodynamics, but the earlier equations of relativistic hydrodynamics. All right, so as you
all know, since they were proposed first in the seminal paper by Reisi Perdicaris and Karniadakis
in 2019, nowadays physics-informed neural networks have become very widely used
techniques to solve numerical differential equations based on machine learning.
So these neural networks compute the solution of partial differential equations
incorporating physical information, both in the architecture of the network and in the
training procedure. So they learn from both the data and most importantly from the physical
loss of the problem. And these second parties, in my opinion, what makes them very, very
interesting for physical applications. So we know that partial differential equations
continuous partial differential equations can be approximated or solved with neural networks.
There is this theorem by the universal approximation theorem by Pinkus
that guarantees that in principle, this is the case. However, if we have discontinuities
or discontinuous solutions in the PDE, there is no theoretical background that
ensures that the neural network is actually going to produce the correct result.
And in the case of hydrodynamics in particular, we have this issue of since this is a nonlinear
hyperbolic system, you are always going to be facing these continuous solutions, even if the
initial data is smooth, just because the equations are nonlinear. So we know how to solve
hydrodynamics, nonlinear hyperbolic equations using finite volume methods,
but this is not the point, the point of our study was to see if using pins,
we can actually also solve those equations because for finite volume methods we have some issues
when trying to solve those equations in the case of relativistic hydrodynamics that I will briefly
mention in a minute. So let me tell you a little bit about what we are interested in solving
these relativistic hydrodynamics equations. They are obtained from local conservation
laws, local conservation laws of a tensor, the stress energy tensor, that has the content of
the momentum of the fluid and the energy of the fluid, and also the conservation law of the matter
current density. You see my pointer, these are those equations written here on the left of the
screen. So this nabla mu is a covariant derivative associated with the four dimensional space
time metric. And then the current density of the matter is given by this quantity j mu,
which is the rest mass density of the fluid times the four velocity.
So these indices here, the Greek indices go from zero to three, those are space time indices,
zero is for time and one, two, and three is for the spatial coordinates.
And then T mu nu is the stress energy tensor, as I was saying, that typically for most
application people consider a perfect fluid. So the stress energy tensor of a perfect fluid
is this quantity here, where we have also introduced this H, which is the enthalpy,
and P, which is the thermal pressure. T mu nu is just the metric, the inverse metric.
So now these covariant equations here have to be explicitly written in terms of a coordinate chart.
And then once you select a coordinate chart, these equations transform into those equations
here on the bottom right part of the slide. So this is a balanced law equation. These are
five equations. So you have here the conservation laws of mass density, the conservation law of
momentum, and the conservation law of the energy. It's not strictly speaking, it's not a
conservation law, because you have terms on the right-hand side of the equations, but those
terms do not depend on the state vector of the equation. They only depend on the metric.
So if we were in a flat metric, in the inverse metric, those terms on the right of
the equations on the source terms would be exactly zero. But if we were in Cartesian
coordinates, if we were in pervelinear coordinates, we would also have some geometrical sources.
But it's not much different to what we have already in the case of the Euler equations
of Newtonian heterodynamics, where in pervelinear coordinates you can also have these kind of
geometrical sources. All right, so there are many formulations actually to solve those
equations. They depend on the choice of the slicing of the spacetimes, because the level
surfaces of the time coordinate can be spatial, or can be light-like or null. So the space-like
hypersurface is the most widely used in numerical relativity, and this is called the 3 plus 1
formulation of relativity of the Einstein's equations and the hydrodynamics as well.
And the second choice that we have is the primitive variables, the physical variables
with respect to which we will formulate the problem. So those physical variables are typically the
res mass density, the velocity of the fluid, the pressure, the enthalpy. But it turns out that
in the case of the relativistic hydro equations, we have a different set of variables. Our
conserved variables are not actually the physical variables. The state vector is a vector that
is constructed from some basic primitive variables. And then this complicates a little bit
the algebra when trying to solve those equations. So already back in the 70s, these equations were
people tried to solve those equations in full 3D, but they were formulated as a set of
advection equations. And the price to pay by doing that was to move to the right-hand side,
terms that broke the conservative nature of the equations. And it turned out that by doing
that, there were some limitations when solving the equations in the flows were highly high speeds,
the so-called relativistic regime with high Lorentz factors, let's say. And then conservative
formulations, which share some ideas with the conservative formulations in the Newtonian
case, those conservative formulations for the relativistic equations were proposed in the 90s.
And here, you have some of the people that presented those formulations. So
I will be briefly talking about the formulation of Banules et al., the third reference here,
which is nowadays known in the community of numerical relativists as the valentine formulation
of the relativistic hydrodynamic equations. Sorry, I have a question about the last slide.
Sure. Natresca, Sandia. So for the right-hand side, the metric terms that appear,
shall we interpret those as being constant, or are they a function of the state?
Is it a given manifold that you're solving on, or is it something that's evolving in response
to the flow? No, no. I mean, you could evolve them, and you could not. That depends on the
problem you want to solve. So for instance, if you're studying, say, a merger of two
neutron stars, or if you're studying the collapse of a star, then the spacetime metric is also
evolving in time. And then in addition to these two equations, you have to solve Einstein's equations,
which is the generalization of Poisson's equation for the gravity, for the gravitational field.
But if the fluid is non-self-gravitating, if the fluid is non-self-gravitating,
then you can assume that the test fluid approximation is valid, and then those terms
on the right-hand side are just functions of the coordinates, but they are constant in time.
Crystal Clear, thank you. Okay, thank you. So as I was saying, this formulation that we proposed in
the 90s shares many, many, many aspects with the Newtonian formulations of the Euler equations.
We have a hyperbolic system. It is conservative, and then we can solve those equations using
the same kind of Godunaw-type methods based on Riemann solvers to solve those equations,
using the characteristic speeds, the eigenvalues of the Jacobian matrices of the system,
and the characteristic fields, the eigenvectors of the system. So the tools that we have for
computational fluid dynamics were translated to relativistic hydrodynamics as well.
And this is the preferred choice. This is the high-resolution shortcut in the schemes
based on Riemann solvers. It's what everyone in the community uses nowadays to solve those
equations, also in the relativistic case. But this is not what we are going to talk about here.
We're going to talk about how to solve those equations using pins. So let me skip this
technical part. Let me just go to the system itself that you have here in this slide.
So you have five equations. Those are the conservation of mass, momentum, and energy.
In 3D, you have five equations. Then the capital U is the state vector, which are these
five quantities. The capital D is the relativistic mass density, which is the rest mass density times
this function W. This W is the Lorentz factor, which is defined here. So Lorentz factor of 1
means that the fluid is at rest. Lorentz factor of infinity means that the fluid is
moving at the speed of light. Then the second term in the state vector, Sj, is the momentum
relativistic density in each of the three spatial directions, J, and is given by this
particular expression here. And the final term, tau, is the energy, the relativistic energy density,
where we subtract the rest mass density, the capital D, in order to recover the
Newtonian limit. This is just a technical point. Okay. And then we have the vector
of fluxes and the vector of sources. Now, as I was saying before, this vector of sources
only involves space-time quantities, also fluid quantities, but not derivatives of fluid quantities.
So in that sense, it is a conservative system. Okay. So this is the system in full, I mean,
expanding the expressions, what we have in the first square in the top, in full GR,
in full general relativity. Then on the bottom left, we have the limit of those equations
in the flat case without gravity. This is the space-time, the Minkowski space-time limit.
And on the right-hand side at the bottom, we have the Newtonian limit of those Minkowski
and equations, which are the familiar Euler equations for the, I mean, the continuity
equation for the mass density, the momentum equation, the Euler equation and the energy
conservation equation at the bottom. So the equations that we will be solving with
pins is the system in flat space-time, Minkowski space-time. So the equations on the left
bottom, and we will be solving them only in one spatial dimension, so in T and X.
And we will be focusing on Riemann problems in order to apply our pins,
because we have the exact solution of the Riemann problem and that exact solution,
we can use as the ground truth to compare the performance of our method.
Probably you will know what is Riemann problems and initial value problem with this continuous
initial data and the solution is just basically constant states separated by waves,
rarifaction waves, shock waves and contact discontinuities. And this exact solution of
the Riemann problem was obtained for the Euler equations of Newtonian hydrodynamics
by Godunov in the case in the fifties, at the end of the fifties,
by considering a perfect fluid equation of the state. And this is used in order to compute
the numerical fluxes of the finite volume method of the high-resolution shock-capturing method.
And this solution was extended in the nineties to relativistic hydrodynamics by these two
authors, Martin and Müller. And this exact solution in the relativistic case
is the one that we will be using as the ground truth, as I was telling you before.
And why Riemann problems? Well, when you discretize a, you know, a continuous solution,
a continuous PDE on a finite grid, what you have is a continuous family of local Riemann
problems at each cell interface between your neighboring numerical cells. So if you know
how to solve a Riemann problem, then you have piecewise constant data here in red.
And then the solution of the local Riemann problems at each cell interface gives you, in
principle, a way to solve, to advance in time the initial conditions. And this is what is plotted
here on the left. We have on the second plot here what we have are the different conditions
for our waves, the shock wave. So for instance, in this interface here, we have that the pressure
on the right is higher on the pressure on the left. So we will have a shock wave moving to the
left. And then I contact this continuity in between and a refraction fan on the on the right
hand side. And on the interface on the right will happen the opposite because the pressure on the
left is larger than the pressure on the right. So on the top, the image on the top, we have the
exact solution of the of the pressure profile as a function at a given time as a function of
the spatial coordinate X. And that solution at time tn plus one can be therefore obtained
from the from explicitly using this kind of flash conservative hyperbolic or I mean method
flux conservative methods, which is fully explicit. And then we compute these numerical
flashes of the cell interfaces and solving Riemann problems. So with pins, we are going to
sidestep completely that. Well, before going to that, let me tell you, you probably know
that these high resolution shock after in the skins provide very stable and very accurate
shock profiles as I'm showing here two different problems that show two problem.
The solid lines are the contact, the constant, the exact solution and the symbols represent the
numerical solutions obtained with a with a high resolution shock happening a scheme.
And the problem on the left is that relativistic short reflection where we have a fluid with
very high speed that bounces off a wall and then a shock waveforms. And as you can see
this high resolution shock after in the skins, even if the for very high speed flows, they
obtain the solutions very accurately. And the discontinuities are propagating at the correct
speeds and nonlinear features are very accurately resolved. So our goal, our objective is to try
to see if pins can also reproduce these results and can achieve such good results as as the
predict the more traditional high resolution shock after in the skins in the presence
of discontinuities and highest speed flows. Because if we manage to do that, we will also be able to
study some problems that are yet unsolved in the case of relativistic high dynamics,
especially more than one dimension. And we will also sidestep a technical difficulty of
recovering the physical or the primitive variables from the conserved variables, which
is not not given in close form. So one has to do an iterative process in order to recover
the primitive variables. And this is very time consuming. If we if we manage to obtain this
level of accuracy using pins, then we will complete this side step, that particular step,
the recovery of the primitive variables. And that would be very beneficial in terms of
performance of the of the method. So this is the main motivation. And at this point,
I will stop. And Tony Ferrer will talk about the actual method that we have devised in order to solve
those equations that I have just listed. And if I'm not mistaken, Tony is going to share
the screen from now on. Yeah, I'm going to share the screen before you turn it over.
Can you comment on the electromagnetism version of this? It's great. Like,
like coupling Maxwell and so on, shock magneto hydrodynamics and whether you think that's
viable with a pin and sure, sure. Yeah, that's actually a very good question. Yeah. So the
GR hydra, the GR hydra equations have also, you know, the counterpart with magnetic
fields, the GRMHD equations, they have also been obtained in flash conservative form,
as a fully hyperbolic system with, you know, all the eigenvalues and the eigenvectors have been
obtained. So high resolution shock coupling methods are being applied routinely to solve the GRMHD case
as well. We haven't yet tried the GRMHD case. But this is something that we would like to do
in the near future, because indeed, it's, you know, it's, it's a more, more extended
problem and certainly more interesting in many astrophysical applications. But in principle is also
is a system that in principle can also be attacked with the same kind of method that we are using
currently to solve the case without magnetic fields, indeed. Excellent, thanks. So you
should be able to see my screen this moment. Yes. Yes, okay. So I will continue for a bit.
I would like to start talking a little bit more about the motivation of the, of the work.
As Toni from said, numerical algorithms may have some drawback when recovering the primitive
variables, the density, the, the velocity and the pressure or the, or the energy of the fluid
in terms of the, of the conservative ones, the relativistic, the synthesis of mass,
moment and energy. So by using pins, this is a problem that pins doesn't care about because
we can demand the output of the neural network to be whatever we want. And it's, this is one of
the main advantage that we think that's on the pin side, because we can, we can demand
the directly the output to be the set of primitive variables. So this is something that
makes pins a good alternative. But obviously this kind of on numerical algorithms, the high
resolution schemes are, have been studied in literature and they have proven to, to, to, to
get, to give a state of the art solutions for this kind of problems. So the first step,
the first motivation was to check if Avonilla pin, baseline pin is able to, to, to describe
the discontinuities of their, this kind of Riemann problems because in astrophysics
is of crucial importance because we may have a violent and extreme situations that usually
lead to, to these discontinuities in time and space. So this, let's say we have these both
motivations. So I will just go a little bit faster here because we, we just know what
how a pin works, but basically we use as input a time and the spatial dimension because we are focusing
on a one dimensional problems in the Minkowski's test time as, as Tony said, and basically we
build this U tensor as the output, we will demand it to be the set of primitive variables.
So we are able to directly get all the rest of all the conserved quantities and therefore we
can build all the equations and compute them with any kind of problem. So from this moment,
we just build this F operator that's, well, it contains all the information of the underlying
physics of the equations themselves. And we just basically willed the loss function as usual
by this called the soft enforcement. We just consider the first term here is just the term
that corresponds to the, the PD residuals. And here we can consider all the extra terms that
the new work needs to meet. For example, here we have the initial conditions. And we can consider
any kind of experimental data if there is any, of course, and the boundary conditions in space
and so on. Basically, here we have all the physical external information that the, the,
the new work needs to, to accomplish. So let's jump directly to the set of equations.
As Tony said, this set of equations in the Kosovo inform is the straightforward, let's say,
modification of the classical Euler hydrodynamics. Well, we will directly to the space time,
because space time, so we can consider fluids that have have velocities
around or very close to the speed of light, the, the ultra relative cases. And when we consider
this kind of scenarios, we need to use the set of equations. And well, basically, due to the fact
of this Lorentz factor, the equations get, let's say, the variables get very, let's say,
more coupled than the, the classical case. So this is the case, the, the, the reason that we
don't have any way, let's say, analytical way to, to go for, from the, the, the set of conservative
variables to the set of primitive variables. So this is a no, unknown drawback in the numerical,
the high resolution schemes where we have to do this, this is extra step to the
for the recovery of the primitive variables in terms of the, of the conservative ones,
because we need them in order to, to, to follow with the numerical resolution. So this is something
that we pins is something that we can avoid because we just demand the output to be the set
directly of the primitive variables. So we are able to compute the conservative variables,
the relative density density of mass momentum and energy, and then we can compute the
equations with any kind of, of problem for that, for that aspect. So going more into detail
about the methodology we are, we propose here is mainly based on two parts. The first part is
something that have been stated on the literature. We can consider the activation
factors in general, all of the hidden layers of the new or new work and of course of the,
of the output layers, let's say, we can consider them to be dynamic, understanding dynamic by
trainable alongside with the, with the loss function. In fact, in this reference,
the authors get pretty well, let's say results and state of the results in some equations
that they, they propose there. And we thought that it could be a good option to implement for,
for our pin because basically what we do is to, to understand this a slow parameter of the activation
function in general as trainable. So we can get some kind of dynamic function such as here for
example, the hyperbolic tangent and the segment function where we, what we do by increasing the,
the slow parameter is we are stretching the activation function. So we are restricting
the input values, the set of input values that have some information to back propagate for the
new work. So this is something that may help the new work to perform better in the, in the
description of this continuity. So this is something that we have considered and the
second approach or the second part of the methodology is to, to basically introduce
a new tensor, this call here, this capital lambda tensor that basically will depend in an inverse
well proportionally inversely to the, to the gradients of the physical variables.
So we need this function, okay, to deactivate to a certain extent the loss function and
therefore we are deactivating a little bit, let's say to a certain extent that will be
measured with a new set of hyperparameters that will be, will be introduced in a minute.
And therefore by doing this, we are forcing the new work to, doesn't, to basically not care a lot on
the, the sample points that are in the discontinuity and the proximities of the
discontinuity. And by doing this, basically the new work doesn't try to interpolate in a,
in a smooth way the, the points that are under this continuity. So basically the new work
is helped because we, we, we, as we will see in the, in the results section,
this kind of, well, this kind of notification helps the new work to, to better describe the,
the, the points around the discontinuity by just ignoring them to a certain extent. So
this, let's say this deactivation is measured by two new set of, a set of two new hyperparameters.
This one of here, this alpha parameter is basically the, the, the weight is proportional to
each one of the variants of the physical variables, the set of midi variables. And we
can introduce also a new set of hyperparameters that is called here as beta and they take the
role of the, the different exponents of the physical gradients. So basically we demand
we can build several different functions for, with this, with this definition. But basically
we will want the function to, to be zeroed, that is to deactivate the new work completely
in the limit where the gradients tend to infinite. And on the contrary, we want the,
the, the function to recover as a constant factor. So we can get the, the, the, the normal,
the, the, the manual loss function for the, for the pin when the gradients are totally deactivated.
So here we have plotted as just a matter of example, the function one over one plus alpha
times the absolute value of the, of x in general to the power of beta. So we can
directly see that by increasing the beta parameter that is the role as the spawning,
we will expect the pin performance to, to be some kind of, well, to get some kind of instability
because well, we are forcing more the, the, the, let's say the activation of the pin,
okay, the annihilating, let's say, but we are in some, we can get some kind of
instability, nomadic instability for some kind of problems, not for others we will see in the,
in the results section, but this is something that we could expect and in fact it could, it happens.
And okay, so basically some matter of, of, of example here, we have a diagram that basically
is the, let's say the fully dense connected as usual when we work with pins with the main
modification here that of course we have this time over the slots for all of, for each one of the
hidden layers and for the output, of course we have three different activation functions in general,
one for the velocity that has to be, has to be restricted in the range of minus one to one
because we, we want to respect the underlying physics to not speed the, to not go higher
than the speed of light and the density and the pressure, okay, in general, so the main difference
comes here in the, this redefinition of the, of the loss that has to, to, to be with the PDS
underlying equations. So to check the, the performance of the,
I think there's something I must be missing. So if you're not enforcing continuity,
right, the idea is that that's the point of your capital Lambda function.
Then this, in a lot of ways, you must enforce flux continuity through like the Hugonio relations,
right? This is the same thing as like in DG when you work with a broken polynomial space
you have to pay for, otherwise you could have fields that, you know, kind of
separate and lift apart from each other. So can you comment on that that there is,
you're kind of getting rid of continuity in the field, but you're not enforcing
conservation anymore? Yeah, we are, yes, I think that I understand you, but basically we use,
okay, the same set of equations, but we modify the loss function because the,
well, the loss function is basically the, let's say the heart of the, of the problem,
because we can use the same, the same neural architecture for different set of problems in,
in general. So we, by deactivating the neural network, we, well, we don't deactivate it
totally. We just try to manage by using the set of hyper parameters. We try to deactivate it
depending on the problem because it's not always good for the, for the result. This is something that
you have to tune. But yes, we basically enforce the activation of the network in the,
in the special areas where we have high gradients, going to the limit where we have infinite
the check gradients where we have the, we got the discontinuities.
And a co-location scheme, the, the, the role of continuity implicitly gives you the flux
continuity. Right. So if you're turning that off, you're going to need some sort of penalty
somewhere in order to recoup that. Right. So I suspect that even if you get good results
by playing with the hyper parameters, there could be a poor initialization or, or something
where the scheme will just break unless you introduce a, a penalty or something that's
going to bring that flux continuity back. Yeah. That could be something that we can,
we could test in fact, because yes, obviously by, this is, by this modification where we're
basically modify the, the insert, insert the minor, the, the weighting of the
through PDEs that are governing the system. But just what we're complicit by doing this is
basically to force the, the network to not describe in, in a smooth way the, the points
that, or the sub-import that are in the discontinuity and around the discontinuity.
So in a certain, in a certain manner, we, as we would see in the results, we get the, the, the,
that the PIN, this notification of the PIN is then able to see some jumps that the vanilla PIN does not
and to enforce the, the resolution of the discontinuities. But yes, I agree with you that
obviously this is still a, a, a room for improvement as we will take at the end of the,
of the presentation. But we think that the resources that we get are in fact
promising and obviously this is still work to be done in the direct direction.
Just to add quickly, just to make sure I understand what you're doing correctly.
So essentially you're trying to basically penalize, not penalize, basically wherever the
gradients are very high, you basically don't want to, basically we make the weights very, very small
so that you don't change it basically, right? Is that the essence of?
Yes, more, yes, yes, more or less. What we want to do is to, is to weight
more the, the, the part of the, of the domain that is smooth, let's say. And we, we don't want the,
the new world to, to be, to focus on the, on the, on the description of these
discontinuities. And by doing this, the new work is then able to, to solve in a better way
the, the, the points that are around or let's say that the points that are close to this
continuity, but we need the new work to a certain extent to ignore the, the, the jump in the domain
because by having this discontinuity, we have a certain particular, let's say a point in the
space that is not sampled. So the, the network that it will do in general is to interpolate in
a smooth way the solution between the, the points that are very close to, from the left and
from the right. So we then get this kind of interpolation and in, in, and the limit of having an
infinite train time, maybe we could get also a solution that's very close to the discontinuity.
But by doing this, what we do is basically we try the new world to ignore the zones with
high gradients. So we demand it to focus on the proximities and not to describe the
discontinuities. Basically discontinuity is something that to a certain extent,
the pin doesn't look at, doesn't pay attention to that in some manner.
But in the first place, it must at least be able to find it. So once it finds the region of high
disc, high gradients, then you don't penalize it further, basically. But of course, you must find
it at least, you must find points where there are high gradients. Otherwise, it'll never, you
know, the other way to do it will always be large, right? Yes. As we will see in fact in the
results, that's something that we, when we provide this bit parameter here, the exponent,
if we, if we demand it to be so high, then the performance gets worse. In fact, because we need
some kind of representation still in the, in the, in the, in the discontinuity,
but we want to, well, this is something that obviously this, this set of parameters may,
we may think of some way to, to update them through the training procedure. But by fixing
them, they become hyperparameters. So it's needed to, to find some tuning of them. Because if we
exceed, if we are so, so demanding with a new order and we get a water source and the baseline
model and the sort of that, that's interesting and we will see in the, in the, in the results. So
yes. Yes. Basically, we propose for different problems in this field of demand
problems for different scenarios. This is more or less the general configuration we use.
We have the same neural architecture, 10 hidden layers and 40 neurons for each one of the layers
for all the problems. The same activation function, the T stands for the high probability
tangent. And in the output, this may be some difference because as I said before, we need the,
the, the U, the velocity to, to be bounded between the, the minus one and plus one
to respect, in order to respect the physics. And we will be using also the soft plus function
that some, let's say we have here some, some plotting this is the, I think, this is the derivative
of the soft plus function. And we have tested using different kind of activation function that
in fact, the software as function as we will see in one of the problems is better propagated
through the, through the, through the new work. So maybe suitable for some problems, in particular
for two of them as we will see in the result sanctions. And basically as a general, general
configuration, apart from this, we use the, the, well, a learning rate of 20 minus five
in order to ensure convergence. And a petty world, a sample domain in the, in the, in the,
let's say the inside of the, of the domain at the space time domain. And in the boundary,
let's say we have just the boundary in time in the initial conditions. So we have
two to the, to the power of 15 points, but this is something that we could also play with and,
and to, to, to find a point where we don't need to sample it more because it's what's
happened and the, and the new work learns anyway, the solution. In terms of comparing the
performance of the vanilla pin and our methodology, we use the, the, the, basically the relative
to a square, not a square that we compare the, what we compare the prediction of the new work
and the prediction of the, the vanilla of the baseline model. And of course the
addition of the high resolution schemes that, that Donny said I was playing before
for the last instant in time, that's it. That will change depending on the problem.
But basically here we have used a red squares to remark the best performance that's
it's related into the, the lowest values for the, for the L2 error. And I would like to
note here, this problem too, as we will see in some slides, is the hardest problems that we have
considered because we have an exaggerated jump in the, in the density variable. So here is still
the high resolution schemes are, are better, but our method is still, it is still better,
but the, it performs better than the baseline model. And for the rest of the problems,
we get always a performance that's comparable for the, for the high resolution schemes because
high resolution schemes may be a suitable option when we work with one dimension in space.
But when going to 2D and 3D, the problem gets harder because we need to do this process of
recovering of the density, the pressure and the, and the velocity variables. Maybe in the,
in that, in that point, the, the pins may enter as a, as a pretty good alternative because some
kind of problems are still not solved. And this is something that we can also investigate and
to work with, with pins to check if we are able to, to, to extract these kinds of solutions
even with, with deep learning, even though they are not very resolved with numerical
algorithms. So here in this plot, we have four suffixes, one for each one of the,
of the scenarios that we have considered. We have plotted basically the L2 norm error
in front of alpha. So when alpha is equal to beta and equal to zero, we get the baseline vanilla
model of pins that's plotted here with this desert black, black line. This is the error
of the vanilla, vanilla pin for all the cases. We see the fact that, for example, for this problem,
when we increase in general beta and alpha, we get a better performance. But here, for example,
as we were talking before, when, when we increase beta too much, so we are enforcing the, the
new work to deactivate too much in the, in the areas with high gradients, then we can get
some kind of numerical instability. And this get, this is something that we could get and that is,
is needed to, to, we need to experiment on that aspect because this kind of hyperparameters at the
end, we have considered the same alpha and the same beta for all the, for the field variables.
In general, they can be different, but in terms of make it easier, we just consider the same
value. And for some problems, for example, this problem of here, we see that there's still
some noise around the, the performance of the vanilla model. This is a particular problem where
we only have one discontinuity that's pretty easy to solve by any work. So a methodology is not
needed, in fact, because a vanilla model solves them in a, in a, in a good way. But in general,
when we have discontinuities, that we can get one, well, two discontinues for the rest of
the, for example, and one for the velocity and another for the pressure, then the problem
gets harder for a vanilla pin to, to solve. Here we have the first example that we have
considered is the relativistic short shock tube problem. That's the same problem that we have
in literature, but here in this case we are using velocities that are equal to half of the,
of the speed of light. So we are in a relativistic regime, then we need to use the, the set of
Minkowski equations that we say, we saw before. Here on the top for the four problems will be the
same. On the top we have the solution blue dots for, for our approach, our pin. Here we have the
same, the same plots, but the prediction made for the vanilla, of the vanilla pin. And
represented in black, we have the ground solution, the, the, the known analytical solution.
So as we can see, for example, here in the velocity, by ignoring the, the, the points that are around
the discontinuity that are very close to discontinuity, we are able to describe, well, obviously there's
still room for improvement in some cases, but here, for example, in the velocity, this clear
hole or vanilla pin tends to over smooth the corners and by using this kind of the, the
activation of the loss function, then we can describe it in a better, in a better way. So
this case is, as I said, this problem is the hardest that we have considered because
we have here at discontinuity for the, for the density that's pretty hard to solve by a vanilla
pin. Here we are using the, the soft plus function by using a sigmoid. We get, we get
similar results, but are not as good as, as, as this one we have here. That's why maybe the,
the, the cooperation of the, of the soft plus function is better for, for this kind of problems.
And obviously, even though the solution is not perfect, as we can check the rigidity, for
example, in the velocity and, and the pressure, the solution of, of a methodology
all performs by far, which is the, the, the performance of a vanilla pin because then the
one methodology is able to, to, to exactly detect where the discontinuity is and to ignore it to a
certain extent. Therefore, we, we will focus basically on the dots that are strictly on the
left and still on the right. So ignoring the discontinuity, we are not predicting it. So
basically we are getting a best, a better performance in that sense because we are not
forcing the new world to solve them, them as monthly. In this case, this is the easiest problem,
let's say that where we only have one discontinuity is one of here and the, the other areas with
high gradients are not really discontinuous, discontinuities. So basically we, in this
case, we can use a baseline vanilla model pin and then the solution is not bad as we,
as we can see here. Obviously, when we use our methodology, we get maybe some epsilon of
performance here around the, the corners. But in general, in this case, for example,
where we have only one discontinuity, the rest of the, of the variables are very,
let's say, easy to, to, to solve by the pin. So the, the performance is more or less the same.
But we can also use our methodology because it's more, let's say, it can be some aspect,
we can understand it as a generalization of the vanilla pin when we are working with these
continuities. And the last case we wanted to show is basically a reflexion test. The solution
is more or less the same, at least at a, at a visual level. But it's true that the, as we, we
will hear the, the L2 norm is, well, is lower for our methodology. So in fact, it is working,
performing better. And this is basically because of, of this kind of predictions here
around the, the corners where we have here the over smoothing of the, of the vanilla pin,
it tends to over smooth these corners. And here we still get some kind of flatness prediction.
But of course, if we go, if we go to velocities as to high velocities, when we tend to approach
the speed of light, this kind of yams gets, gets higher and harder to solve. So as I said,
this is still room for improvement and for, for the free door work, as we'll tell you lately,
is basically even more performance that can be achieved. Here, one of the, of the last slides
that we have, here we present two figures for each one of the problems in three dimensions.
This is the, the loss, the loss that we are using that's being witted by the, by the, this
annihilation of the gradients. And here on the right we have the loss for the vanilla pin.
And the most important thing that I want to, to note here is that the initial condition is
basically the, well, alongside with the loss function in terms of methodology, but physically
the initial conditions are the core of the problem. So if the initial conditions are not
well described, then we cannot expect a very nice resolution for the next steps in time.
So here, when using a vanilla pin, we can see that in general, the most amount of the error,
the physical error is bounded around the t equal to zero and around the initial instance of time.
And by waiting the, the, the physical loss, what we accomplish and we can check, we will check it by,
by predicting just over t equal to zero, then the initial conditions are in general
better described. And since the initial conditions, we don't have too much error there,
we, we can more or less ensure that the propagation of the error will be minimal,
except for some cases, such as here, for example, that we have a peak,
but it's just, can be considered just another layer for a certain internal time. And we can
just, nothing too much about it, but in general, the error for time steps that are close to the
initial time is the reduced by a lot when using this kind of loss. And just in terms of,
of ending here, we have loaded as, as a two heat, as a 2D heat map, the, the lambda function that we
get off of training. Here we have the, these blue zones, these continuities for the three variables
and we can mix where we, this can be so mixing with diffusion, let's say diffusion zones of the,
of the, of the fluid. And when we got some, some green color, for example, here, it means that this,
this continuity is just for the, for the, for one of the variables, as we had here this problem,
this corresponds to, to this, this continuity of here of just for the density and the blue zones
of this heat map will correspond to expansion zones where the gradients are big, but in
comparison with the rest of the, of the space time, but we get some, some, let's say, gradual
increasing of the gradients. So we expect that by naturally detecting where these
continuities are and where the zones where we have the, the, the, the largest gradients,
we expect the new work to work, well, the performance of the new work to work better,
to be better. And just to recap a bit, what, a little bit, what we said,
of course, when we are working with one dimensional problems in astrophysics, using a resolution
schemes, high resolution schemes, numerical, numerical algorithms in general that are very
well studied in the, in the, in the field can be a suitable option. But when we go to,
to D and 3D, since we have this drawback in the Minkowski equations, we have this
drawback that we have not in the case of classical hydrodynamics. This is the fact that we cannot
recover in an analytical way the primitive variables of the, of the fluid in terms
of the conservative one. So we expect the, the pin to be in general deep learning methods
to be an alternative, a suitable alternative. When we want to solve the problems in two
dimensions and in three dimensionals in the space, there's something that, that we want to test
as a future work, of course. And it's very important for the field of astrophysics because
we have some kind of problems in the, in the astrophysics domain that are not
solved, or at least they are not solved to the, until we get the performance that we really
want. So deep learning basic methodologies can enter into the field as a, as a suitable alternative.
And of course we will, we will want to, to, to work on the direction and to, to, to improve
our methodology and, and check if we are able to describe some new phenomena that's not being
solved in, in astrophysics. And of course, the something that we can do is to, to go to
the ultra relativistic regime where we have initial conditions of the velocity that are very close
to the, to the velocity, to the speed of light. So we need to, to learn very well the, in fact,
the velocities because the final resolution in town will depend, mainly depend on the, on the
initial values of the velocities in these ultra relativistic domains. Something that we
can work with is also, as Tony said, in the source term of the question that for our question is zero
because we are working in Minkowski and Spestheim. So we have not, we have no curvature and a
bit extension of the work by using this kind of methodologies will be to, for example, consider
an arbitrary, let's say, metric and Spestheim. So we got this kind of new terms and then we
can check if a methodology based on the learning is able, is still able to solve them properly.
And of course, a possible extension of the work is to go, as I said, to, to the, to the problems
and then we are able for, we're using the same kind of architecture of architecture. We are
able to, to solve different problems. We can solve problems in, well, in classical, in the
classical domain in the relativistic domain with no curvature, we can enforce the Spestheim to
be, to, to have some remaining tensor of curvature. Then we're using the same architecture just by
enforcing the, the different physical constraints through how the, the, the loss function we are able
using the same, let's say, basic methodology, we are able to extract information and to simulate
different problems in, in, of, in astrophysics, in astrophysics field that are, can be in
general from, of, of different nature. So that is more or less that everything that we wanted to,
to talk about. And thanks for attending and I hope that this meeting has been
useful for you all. Thanks. So you have any kind of question?
Thank you, Antonio. Thank you, the point. Do we have questions for our speakers?
Mr. Sukumar, you wanted to ask some questions? This is unmuted.
Hi, I just wanted to know, in terms of the hyperparameters or even, I mean,
if you change the width and depth of the network and, or, you know, what are the things you have to,
how robust is it, right? I mean, in terms of, you show, so how, what are the, you know,
plus and minuses, I would say, right? In, well, in, in all the scenarios that we have
considered, we just take alpha equal to beta equal to one, because we can, well, this set of
hyperparameters in general, as, as they are defined, they can be different. We can get
some alpha row, alpha u and alpha p. So we can get different values. Yes. So
as they are hyperparameters. So if we enforce them to be constant from the beginning of the
training, we should make some kind of study more into detail such as this, where we can
more or less calibrate, let's say, in this case, we have the analytical solution, and it's more or
less easy. We can say that. But in the case where we don't have any analytical solution,
we may think of a way of somehow updating the, the, this set of parameters through the, the
training process, or maybe we can consider them to be trainable throughout the training process.
So the, the, the main optimal, well, the optimization by itself, the text, which is the
best way of updating them through the training. So, but let's say that the
numerical instability, since these kinds of equations are
sensitive, very sensitive to initial conditions. Just for example, for the Lawrence factor,
that's one of the, of the reasons we expect and that has been proven that
by in this, this exponent of here, we can not consider it. Of course, we just can, can get
the alpha parameter by, by, but by considering this, this set of beta parameters, we were able
to get some more flexibility. But the, we expect them stability. And in fact, that's what
happens. The stability in the numerical resolution mainly comes in general, when we increase too much
the, the value of beta. So when we enforce the new work to, to, to that too much, in fact,
the new work needs to still get some information of the discontinuity and the,
of course, around the discontinuity. But yes, for example, in this case, by increasing the
beta parameter, we expect to, to get better results. This in red here, pretty better results
in far, in far more or less a half of an order of magnitude in the two norm. But yes, of course,
there are parameters and we need to, to, to some calibrating before, before the training. But
more or less alpha equal to beta equal to one, it sounds to be not too aggressive
a modification, not too aggressive of the vanilla pin. So that's what we use in the, in the, in the
scenarios. What about the width and depth? You just fixed it and leave it as what you picked
initially showed you initially, or have you tried, you know, increasing the depth, for example,
or is it robust, or does it change dramatically or not? Do you, do you mean the, the new
architecture, right? Yeah. Yes. In this one for the further problems, we consider the same
new architecture. We have tested several configurations, because maybe 10 hidden layers
is probably enough and too much in some cases. But as we have some GPO power, we can consider a
big new work, but we have been doing some tests by decreasing the size of the, of the, of the new
network. And we don't see any, any, let's say, we see some good robustness. Obviously, if we, if we
decrease too much the, the depth of the, of the, of the new network, maybe we arrive at a point
where we need more weights for the problem to be, to be, to be fully described. But in fact,
since we are working with equations that are not very easy from a mathematical, mathematical
point of view. And of course, if we go out to equations in the general, in the general
activity regime, we will expect to, to not be, to not get problems for, from the, the
architecture network. So we get, we put tons of, let's say, not tons, but in this case, just 10
hidden layers. And we expect that we can forget more or less about the, this, this aspect and
just focus on the loss function. Because in the loss function, we have all the physical
information, let's say, of course, there are some problems, for example, we can get
some scenarios of initial conditions where, for example, the, the pressure variable may be so
difficult, or maybe harder to, to solve than the others. And therefore, in that kind of
situations, we may need to split the following dense connecting layer into, into two, let's
say, two, two different legs, for example, we can consider one leg explicitly to use this
kind of weights just for the pressure variables. And then we use a separate set of weights for the
rest of variables. But these problems that we are working with here, we don't need to, we don't
need to, to, to worry a lot about the architecture, the new architecture, because it's more or
less robust. So I think one more point might be that, you know, I don't know if you can
explore in your context.
Sorry, I'm hearing you a little bad, I guess.
The voice got bad.
Is it just me or is it all of us?
The important, the very important, the very important part of the way, the, the, the, the, the
one that I mentioned might not be right.
Is there some connection issue?
Yes.
So if it happens, I guess.
Can you hear us? Maybe he got disconnected. Yes. Yes. Do you want to ask him the question
that you had? Does anyone have more questions for Antonio? It's okay. I think Chris Zhao had a
question I think that already got answered with what Professor Sukumar asked. Do you have more
questions, Chris? So thank you Professor Font and thank you Antonio for taking your time out
and giving us this presentation today. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. So we would be
actually uploading the recording of today's presentation on our YouTube channel. So please
feel free to follow us over there. Thank you everyone for tuning in and have a great weekend ahead.
Thank you. This time for you. Thanks. Bye. Goodbye.